SHELL PROGRAMMING :

>A shell program, sometimes referred to as a shell script1, is simply a program constructed of shell commands. 
>A shell script is a list of commands in a computer program that is run by the Unix shell which is a command line interpreter. 
>A shell script usually has comments that describe the steps. The different operations performed by shell scripts are program execution, 
 file manipulation and text printing.
>Shell programs are interpreted each time they are run. 
>This means each command is processed (i.e. executed) by the shell a single line at a time. 
>This is different from languages such as C or C++, which are translated in their entirety by a compiler program into a binary image. 
>A shell program may be simple and consist of just a few shell commands, or it may be very complex and consist of thousands2 of shell commands. 
>The complexity of the shell program is in the hand of the programmer. 

#Types of Shells
Two major types of shell in Unix are as follows-
1] Bourne Shell
This is the default shell for version 7 Unix. The character $ is the default prompt for the bourne shell. 
The different subcategories in this shell are Korn shell, Bourne Again shell, POSIX shell etc.

2] C Shell
This is a Unix shell and a command processor that is run in a text window. 
The character % is the default prompt for the C shell. File commands can also be read easily by the C shell, which is known as a script.

#In general, a shell program can be characterized by:
1.Shell programs consist of one or more primitive shell commands
2.Shell programs are created using your text editor of choice, e.g. vi or emacs
3.Shell programs are executed just as shell commands are, by typing the name of the program followed by the [Enter] key
4.Shell programs have permission modes as do any other file, and must have the correct permissions set to execute the program
5.As with other programming languages, the shell language has the functionality to allow input & output, iteration, logical decision making, 
  file creation and deletion, and system call capability 
6.Shell programs are free format, as long as the syntax of each shell command is correct. 
  This means that blank lines, indentation and abundant whitespace can be used freely.
